---
published: true
title: The fall of reddit. A discussion of speech, ideals and expression of free thought.
layout: post
---
reddit, a site started in 2015 2005 (Thanks /v/Hooptie for pointing my mistake out.) by Steve Huffman and Alexis Ohanian, originally stood for an open and free place for speech. In a article in 2012, founder Alexis Ohanian said it was "A bastion of free speech on the World Wide Web? I bet they would like it" - (Alexis Ohanian) [Forbes]|(http://www.forbes.com/sites/kashmirhill/2012/02/02/reddit-co-founder-alexis-ohanians-rosy-outlook-on-the-future-of-politics/3/) After being asking if he knew what the founding fathers would think of the site. It grew from the collapse of digg, through the rise of facebook and other social networking sites. Even copycats such as ifunny and 9gag. But, in the past few weeks, things have changed.

The site has a rich history, and spawned many companies. Among its alumms, the site Imgur, which was created with the purpose to originally store photos for reddit. Since all the other companies at the time only provided subpar service stuffed full of ads. And with slow loading times. Imgur changed that. Another site, redditgifts, started as a way to pair users for the secret santa. To creating a massive network of giftgivers for nearly every holiday. Including 2 Guinness world records for the title of largest secret santa.

The past year for reddit has led them down an interesting path. One that has taken them from forcing apps to use "for reddit" instead of just "reddit" in the title. Or face legal action. To banning subreddits that just make feel people uncomfortable, /r/fatpeoplehate, instead of the ones that are still up like /r/picsofdeadkids (Yes this is nsfw.) And the controversy surrounding the firing of Victoria, who helped /r/IAMA with AMAs such as Bill Murrays and several other celebrities. The info surrounding her departure puts possible blame on former CEO Ellen Pao, or more likely, on Alexis Ohanian. Since Alexis has sat longer on the board than her. But that likeliness is pure speculation. The point of her being fired was stated as a difference of ideals. And it does seem a bit silly, considering all the work she did. But as I said, everything over the past year on the websites part seemed off.

With m00t gone from 4chan, and the site's janitors and mods being replaced with those who didn't grasp the goal of free speech. And starting to ban people for using slurs and such, even as a joke. I doubt anyone in the depths of 4chan at the time felt bothered to be called a niggerfaggot. And yet bans were being handed out like smores around Hell's campfire. Some people decided to jump to reddit, where worries were growing. More and more controversies surrounding "Power Mods" or people who ran 50, 100, even 400 subreddits were becoming more obvious. Internal power structures that control the content and removals of content for subreddits ranging from the small and obscure; to the major defaults that every user begins seeing. And more shadowbans were being given.

And this is where the issues start to arise at the fundamental level. The admins can shadowban any user on the site. And while it was originally a tool used to remove scammers. The fear of it being misused for censorship came true within these past few months. Following the anger of the removals of the fatpeoplehate, and future subreddits. Several users who found themselves posting content in favor of these places where shadowbanned. Or even banned from subreddits they themselves never posted too. When did the decision to move to this other belief begin? Where you should censor those who disagree with the polices? Nobody can say for sure.

The site of reddit was a place of community, that has fallen divided, and parts of them cast away. The members that stayed were the half that followed the ideals the reddit board put in place as Ellen Pao was in charge. But with the change of leadership after Pao stepping down after an insane about of hate. Even the polices that caused the controversy on the site will still be in place. Does it make sense that it was her fault? Not completely. She has a say on the board, and would have felt the hate early from the changes. But at the end of the day, she was put in charge to take the fall. To be blamed by the community for the destruction of the site they held dear. And having the one of the founders come back right after she steps down. Ms. Pao, I am sorry for what happened to you at reddit. You were put in charge of a beast that couldn't tell up from down if it needed too. To watch over as they made the changes. If you did it to destroy the site's fundamentals, well that's that. If the board wanted to monetize the site and remove the riff raff to make it more family friendly. I say more power to you.

But I said I was sorry. I am, for two reasons. The board probably make you take the fall, and whether or not you were a willing party in it. You will have to live with it for the rest of your life. The core audience has left reddit. The reputation is still there, though. They wrongly accused the boston bomber. Even though they removed the fappening photos after releasing the downing street memos. Although only after the girl at 17 years of age was posted, which is an understandable censor. And anyway, the british government only seems to like them under 14 years old, to much horror. (Side note: I actually remember reading about that on reddit before scotland yard confirmed it.)

The second reason is that the site is not the same as what it was. Any investor that steps in now is walking into a site that doesn't know what it will ever allow. The content on the site will start to disprove more and more of the investors. And the changes will drive any regular user away. Leaving the reddit board with a decreasing cash flow.

But this isn't about Pao, or feminism, or anything involving that to me. People on the internet are awful under a mask of anonymity. People are cruel, selfish, and mean. Especially behind a keyboard. I can't imagine getting all those messages from all those people, day in and day out. It sounds exhausting. Nobody should deal with that. But people make decisions, and what happens outside of that is gone from any persons control. Being threatened and mocked, personal info being revealed, and photos sometimes being found from the past. It sounds like the life of being a public figure. And it's something those in the public eye take on these days. But moving down to the level of those doing what makes you afraid is when lines get crossed. And Pao has never crossed such lines, to my knowledge.

But on a site now used a boat for the refuges of reddit. Created as a project by admin @atko, and help from @puttItOut came the site voat.co. Which after experiencing a massive growth following the reddit exodus that has happened, has also been hit by a repeated level 7 DDOS attack. This is where my post ends. The expression of free thought.

You're probably asking, what is a DDOS attack. Well it stands for Distributed Denial of Service. And is an attack designed to use the connections of hundreds, or thousands of PCs to repeatedly connect to a site. All at the same time. And like a traffic jam, the server can't handle the load, and it crashes. Not allowing any connections. And well, aside from minor downtimes from sheer load, the DDOS attacks have been organized. The Internet Security company CloudFlare, employed by Voat to help negate the load of the site at times of heavy use, reported that an organized attack with this quote from a engineer on site. Which was reported to the users of the site through an announcement

[...]it definitely looks like you're currently being hit by a Layer 7 attack. Based on this, I can see at least 1962179 requests that were blocked by IUAM in the past 24 hours. It would appear that these requests are coming from a botnet, though I cannot say for certain, all of which are using legitimate user agents.

At the end of the day, 1,962,179 requests at once. That is enough to blow any site off the internet if it doesn't have the proper security. And at the same time, the sheer amount will still strain the server. Now all the requests are said to come through a botnet, which is my problem. If everyone on reddit wanted the users that didn't agree with them gone. Why didn't they accept the movement to voat, but instead someone hired a botnet to prevent people from having a discussion. On Voat, I have seen nothing but actual discussion, and it is refreshing. And if it changes, I'm sure the systems in place will negate a reddit, or digg disaster on some scale for longer than reddit did.

In conclusion, reddit is no longer the reddit that was a "bastion of free speech". And now has turned the ways of facebook, and monetized the users instead of the unobtrusive ads they had. They removed the free speech, and want to encourage the hivemind that has grown in what ever way they want. One of reddits problems rose from the site suppressing the thought through the hivemind of the site. Any other opinion was downvoted to hell. And free thought was held down. The admins just shadowbanned the spammers. But when a section of the hivemind and a handful of mods disagreed with the admins, the shadowbans moved. The hivemind torn itself, and when the users left. The site they left too got overloaded. The site was DDOS'd by someone involved or in the name of reddit. Just for the restriction of a debate they find unpleasant.

The reddit I knew held internet black out day, and encouraged the posting of the early wikileaks data. They had the downing street memos, and blog posts about tech. Something changed. Money got involved, and they couldn't have the users be hating on the demographic that makes them more money. Now they have turned on the things they stood for, removing the sony files that were leaked. And removed subreddits that weren't all that bad. They removed things that people just blocked. If I was offended by something, I just blocked it, I never imagined I could demand it to be removed.

That reddit is gone, the people who held the ideas of free speech are gone, mostly. And the users that made it what it was are gone. It's fallen, and the ideals it held have spread. When voat comes back from invite only, everyone should stop by and encourage in debate. And if you are already on, I'll see you around.